---
layout: post
title: "Cow Milk"
date: 2014-3-16 12:52:4
---
How does it work?

Metalsmith works in three simple steps:

Read all the files in a source directory.
Invoke a series of plugins that manipulate the files.
Write the results to a destination directory!
Each plugin is invoked with the contents of the source directory, and each file can contain YAML front-matter that will be attached as metadata, so a simple file like...

---
title: A Catchy Title
date: 2014-12-01
---

An informative article.
...would be parsed into...

{
  'path/to/my-file.md': {
    title: 'A Catchy Title',
    date: new Date('2014-12-01'),
    contents: new Buffer('An informative article.')
  }
}
...which any of the plugins can then manipulate however they want. And writing the plugins is incredibly simple, just take a look at the example drafts plugin.

Of course they can get a lot more complicated too. That's what makes Metalsmith powerful; the plugins can do anything you want!

The secret...

We keep referring to Metalsmith as a "static site generator", but it's a lot more than that. Since everything is a plugin, the core library is actually just an abstraction for manipulating a directory of files.

Which means you could just as easily use it to make...

A simple project scaffolder.
A simple build tool for Sass files.
A simple static site generator.
A Jekyll-like static site generator.
A Wintersmith-like static site generator.
CLI

In addition to a simple Javascript API, the Metalsmith CLI can read configuration from a metalsmith.json file, so that you can build static-site generators similar to Jekyll or Wintersmith easily. The example blog above would be configured like this:

{
  "source": "src",
  "destination": "build",
  "plugins": {
    "metalsmith-drafts": true,
    "metalsmith-markdown": true,
    "metalsmith-permalinks": "posts/:title",
    "metalsmith-templates": "handlebars"
  }
}
And then just install metalsmith and the plugins and run the metalsmith CLI...

$ node_modules/.bin/metalsmith

    Metalsmith 路 reading configuration from: /path/to/metalsmith.json
    Metalsmith 路 successfully built to: /path/to/build
Or if you install them globally, you can just use:

$ metalsmith

    Metalsmith 路 reading configuration from: /path/to/metalsmith.json
    Metalsmith 路 successfully built to: /path/to/build
Checkout the static site, Jekyll or Wintersmith examples to see the CLI in action.

API